so if you're someone who says i don't
know if this is going to work therefore
i'm not going to do it you are correct
it may not work but it is because it may
not work that is
why you should do it because it's never
going to work until you keep trying
so hard work doesn't matter only results
matter for the longest time i've had the
belief that it doesn't matter how hard
you work in life
it's only really the results that matter
people won't really care about how hard
you work unless you give them the
results they want to see
you can spend days studying for a test
putting countless countless hours into
something or dedicating a lot of time
towards
whatever thing you're working hard at
none of it matters if you don't produce
results that you or others find
satisfactory
this mentality has pretty much been more
harmful to me than it is helpful
as it has pretty much stopped me from
working on anything with any amount of
effort
i pretty much look at anything i want to
do and go i wish i could do this
but i don't know if my work can produce
the results necessary to achieve success
for me or others so why bother i really
want to improve my life
and work to make myself a better person
but i just fear that i won't get the
results needed to feel like
i accomplished anything i want to do
i really want to stop thinking like this
but it's just been really hard to get
out of this mentality
if anybody wants to help me out with why
hard work matters
or how to get out of this mentality it
would be appreciated
sorry if this comes off as a ramble or
anything i've been really nervous to
post this
okay so you know how sometimes i make it
i try to bully twitch chat and say owned
gg so i wanna i wanna actually give this
person mvp
because i can imagine that this person
when they were thinking about posting
this
maybe their mind said i wish i could
post something and ask for help
but i don't know if posting something
and asking for help will actually help
therefore i'm not going to bother and
what did they do
they post it anyway so this whatever
happened here
is the first step to fixing this problem
and what do you guys notice about this
sentence awareness
of your internal emotional state
instead of this logical pile of
do you guys like how more simply can i
say this
it's a beautiful illustration hey i
think this way
it doesn't help i'm nervous and
they act it's a perfect example
of exactly what you need to do because
this is what the mind is gonna tell you
it's gonna produce the false rational
thoughts
wrong knowledge and so the first thing
that i'd say
is how are you able to make this post
what did your mind tell you
would happen if you made this post it's
kind of interesting
but let's let's answer in a little bit
more of a complete way
so if your mind is telling you all the
time
that results are the only things that
matter and
because results are the only things that
matter and look at all the evidence that
i have
no one cares about how much you studied
they just care about your grades
right like when i apply to college and
here's the evidence right so here's the
rational mind
when i apply to college they don't ask
how much i studied
they asked me for my transcript and they
make the decision based on the
transcript
it's a good argument right it's true
it's good
so remember that when your intellect
gets hijacked by
some emotion the arguments it comes up
with are never false that's why you
can't convince someone because the
arguments they come up with
are logical on some level i don't have
an alcohol problem because
i'm not in jail and i know someone who
has an alcohol problem and he's in jail
he drives drunk i don't therefore
i don't have a problem if you talk to a
thousand alcoholics who are in denial
they'll draw the bar of who has a
problem
so that they are on the safe side that's
where they draw the line
the line is a little bit past where i am
right that's just the nature of
rationalization
so how can we approach this okay how can
we help someone who thinks to themselves
only results matter now i want you guys
to pay attention to a couple of things
here okay none of it matter none of it
matters
if you don't produce results that you or
others find satisfactory
okay achieve success
so i'd start with this question what do
others find satisfactory
and what is the nature and origin of
success what does that mean like what is
the target you're shooting for
because it's kind of like a
self-fulfilling prophecy if success
means a 4.0 then you're right the only
thing that matters is grades
obviously right if my standard is like
if success to me is a 4.0
if my success is an outcome then of
course
outcomes are what matters for that
success it's like kind of a no-brainer
so if you have a results-oriented
perspective on success then results are
going to matter it's sort of like
you know if we're judging if we have a
height contest
what matters is your height it's like
the way that we set things up
so instead what i would encourage you to
do is like think about this post
was this post a success was it
what's the bar that you're measuring
against and this is a common problem
that i have with the medical students i
don't
don't work with many of them now but
like a lot of times like medical
students are so grades oriented they're
so results oriented at some point
at some point i kind of like you know
metaphorically slap them upside the head
i'm like
you're not here for grades who cares
about your clinical grade like do you
get that two years from now
you're gonna walk into a room or you're
gonna be like at a party
and someone is gonna ask the question is
there a doctor here and then like
someone's gonna point to you they're
like that that person's a doctor and
then
you're gonna have to figure out what to
do with another human being that's why
you should study
who the hell cares what grade you get
like you're studying because the
information has
value in and of itself that will become
practically useful for you at some point
it's absolutely terrifying it's the
scariest damn thing and so i'd say like
what is
how do you define success and how do you
define what is satisfactory how do you
define what other
you know what other people find
satisfactory like where does that come
from
because as long as you're playing a game
that is rigged to be outcome oriented
you're gonna find that
no individual thing will feel like
enough
there's a second cognitive trap here
which is that
the feeling of enough is like will
paralyze you
so let me just give you guys an example
if i'm results focused let's say i want
to climb to the top of a mountain i look
there
and i say okay how do i get to the top
of that mountain and i take one step
forward
then i look at the top of the mountain
have i made progress
no am i any closer no
it's still the same distance away every
step you take
is going to feel insufficient if you are
focused on your end goal
technically have i moved forward yes but
that's not what my mind is going to tell
me
because remember my mind is thinking
about the the result right like what is
his mind
this person's mind tell him i wish i
could do this but i don't know if my
work can produce the results
necessary to achieve success so why
bother
why bother trying unless success is
guaranteed and if you think about it
like
nothing you do is gonna guarantee
success and so you're setting up a
situation for yourself where you're
unable to act which is exactly what this
person's problem is and they even
recognize it's a problem so what do we
do
and so it's odd but what you have to do
is let go of success
right so then like the bar is not
getting to the top of the mountain
the bar is how many steps am i gonna
take
the bar is not getting six pack abs the
bar is not losing
50 pounds the bar is am i gonna it's not
even going to the gym every day
be careful because that's an outcome the
bar is
am i going to go to the gym today am i
going to exercise
today so you need to shift your mindset
from a performance-oriented mindset to a
growth-oriented mindset
and this is work that carol dweck did an
awesome job of sort of
thinking about so she hit on on it that
way
the other way to kind of think about it
is from a yogic perspective garumafar
as a human being you are not entitled to
the fruits of your actions
all you are entitled to is actions as a
human being you do not get to control
results
i know it sounds weird you don't get to
control results
all you get to control is actions so as
long as you are concerned
at all about controlling a particular
outcome
that is something that you will never be
able to succeed in
i know it sounds kind of weird but we
think we can control results but we
can't
any job interview i go into i don't have
the ability to get that job
i can't control that all i can control
is whether i walk into the interview all
i can control is whether i do my
homework the day before
whether i learn about the company or not
i can't control whether i get an a or
not all i can control is whether i study
and maybe if i'm woefully unlucky and it
turns out that out of the hundred
questions
eleven questions were from the one
lecture that i missed and couldn't find
notes on
because my buddy who i relied on for
notes never came through
then i'm sol and i get a b g g
i can't actually control getting an a
all i can control is what i study so
carol dweck sort of talks about this
from a research psychological
aspect but this has been known in
humanity and in the east
for literally thousands of years that as
a human being you don't control
outcomes you only control actions so
when i got on stream today
can i help you think about it for a
second what's gonna happen if you come
and listen to our streams what's the
outcome you have no clue
as do i i have no clue what are we going
to talk about i don't know
am i going to make sense maybe am i not
going to make sense is it going to be
confusing is my vata going to get the
better of me maybe
but we're going to show up and we're
going to try and that's why we stream
usually three days a week we're going to
roll those dice as much as we can we're
going to keep trying
and if you roll the dice enough this is
what the law of karma says generally
speaking if you roll the dice enough
things will end up in your favor so stop
focusing about the success adopt a
gentian
impact mindset you gotta grind
gotta put your wallet where your desires
are right
seriously life is a gamble chat right
you gotta the way to succeed like how do
you get a five star character and
gunshin impact you roll the dice many
many many many times
so who is the one who succeeds it's the
people who roll the dice over and over
and over again
so if you're someone who says i don't
know if this is going to work therefore
i'm not going to do it you are correct
it may not work but it is because it may
not work that is
why you should do it because it's never
going to work until you keep trying
yeah so also chad i've kind of cooled
off on genting impact it's getting kind
of grindy and i'm not so sure i'm gonna
continue playing it
you know but i i will say yeah so like
when someone was a 0.01
so chat i will explain to y'all okay
last example of rng
when i graduated from college with a 2.5
gpa
people know this story i'm sure i
applied to 140 research positions
got one interview and 139 rejections
the 141st research position i applied to
was harvard medical school
and i got it so keep trying on my wall
my biggest regret
from applying to medical school for
three years in a row
is that i did not keep all of the
rejection letters
what i want on my wall what deserves to
be on my wall
is not my certifications from
harvard medical school what deserves to
be on my wall is the
90 rejection letters i got that's my
story
it's not about the one that i got right
it's about the 90 applications that i
sent out
that's what i'm proud of and so i
encourage each and every one of you when
your mind tells you it's not gonna be
enough okay
so what are you gonna do about it are
you going to try anyway
are you going to let external
circumstances dictate your actions
because if you want to take control of
your life you have to stop letting
external circumstances
dictate your actions controlling your
life is about
acting and losing control of your life
is letting other things control your
actions
whether it be a toxic relationship
whether it be like applying are you
gonna let your anxiety control you are
you gonna ask someone out
you can let your anxiety control you or
you're gonna apply for a job you're
going to let your anxiety control you're
going to sign up to learn how to play
the piano
what do you control very little and the
problem is that everyone is so
bent out of shape everyone spends so
much time trying to chase success that
they forget action
and what you essentially find is that
the people who are successful are the
ones who devote themselves to action
so devote yourself to action that's all
you need to do just get up and act
you're like
but it may fail yes you're correct it
may fail it will probably fail and then
if you do it again
the chances of failure are lower you do
it again the chances are lower
you do it again chances are lower and
then depending on your beliefs
you know if you believe in god and what
not hopefully there's a pity timer
you never know right so i think maybe
getting getting into hms as a research
assistant was my five star pity timer
you